_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am generally interested in scientific research, while my career thus far focused in the field of computational biology/biochemistry, I am also eager to apply my skill set for problem solving within other natural sciences. My life-long secular pilgrimage is to pursue the nature of reality through unceasing study of philosophy, mathematics, and physical sciences.

Currently
------

2021-2025

I am a PhD graduate at the [Physical Chemistry Curie Lab](https://institut-curie.org/unit/umr168), an interdiscipinary research unit of [Institut Curie](https://curie.fr/) that uses physics to understand living matter. While [my team](https://institut-curie.org/team/levy) specialises in molecular microscopy of membranes by means of in vitro reconstitution and cryo-electron microscopy, [my project](https://copper-antoinette-68.tiiny.site) is focused on the development and application of image processing workflows for characterising membrane morphologies and resolving membrane protein structures from cryo-electron tomography data. 

Previously
------

2018-2021

Before I started my PhD, I was a master student at [Heidelberg University](https://www.uni-heidelberg.de/en), where I focused my coursework in bioinformatics and computational biology. Through research internships, I gained experience in the fields of microfluidics (synthetic biology), proteomics (cancer biology), single-cell RNA sequencing (evolution), molecular dynamics (biochemical physics), and image processing for cryo-electron tomography (virology).

2015-2018

I completed my bachelor study in science at [University College Utrecht](https://www.uu.nl/en/organisation/university-college-utrecht), an honours college of [Utrecht University](https://www.uu.nl/en), where I focused on the following subjects (tracks): cognitive neuroscience, chemistry, molecular cell biology, & medicine (gained pre-med qualification). Some topics of my track-finishing projects: spatial perception, brain imaging with fMRI/MRI, drug design, and plant molecular biology. Topics of my research internships: therapeutic nanoparticles, development and cancer modelling in organoids.

Future
------

2025-?

I intend to pursue a postdoctoral position and eventually a professorship in fundamental scientific research after my PhD graduation. I am interested in continuing in the field of cryo-electron microscopy/tomography. I am also keen on exploring alternative computational projects in protein sciences (e.g., protein structure, function, and interaction simulation/prediction, and protein design), abiogenesis, molecular paleontology/evolution, and image/signal processing (for applications in neuroscience, geoscience, astronomy and/or others). I am not actively seeking industrial positions, but I would be glad to be a part of promising academic startups and companies that make positive environmental impacts.

Hobbies
------

As a child, I practised gymnastics, learnt to play the piano, won awards in art and creative writing competitions. I also published writing pieces and obtained an official line art skill qualification. As a teen, my interests completely shifted to sciences. Instead, I won awards in Olympiad maths, innovative physics, and academic debate competitions. 

Nowadays, since my work happens to be my major hobby, I am taking it easy. I enjoy going around on my goofy kickscooter, taking care of my pet lizard and his live food, struggling to play the majestic [otamatone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_I7nCZVky40) well (one day), doing [amateur landscape photography](https://www.instagram.com/cyansingjikching/?hl=en) when I travel and/or hike, going urban exploring, bouldering, and playing [DnD or games alike](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons) with friends, I dungeon master. 

Contact
------

The Physical Chemistry Curie Lab, 11 Rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 75005 Paris

xingyi.cheng@curie.fr

Commit message:

Revise about section for career and research focus
Updated the about section to reflect new career status and interests in computational imaging and scientific research.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am broadly interested in scientific research. While my career thus far focused on image processing for cryo-electron tomography, I am actively seeking opportunities to apply my skill set to new challenges both within and beyond image processing across the natural sciences. I am devoted to a lifelong secular pilgrimage to understand the nature of reality through sustained study of philosophy, mathematics, and the physical sciences.

Currently
------

2025-2027

I am a starting Postdoctoral fellow at the [Inria Centre at Rennes University](https://www.inria.fr/en/inria-centre-rennes-university), a site of [Inria](https://www.inria.fr/en), the French National Institute for Computer Science and Applied Mathematics. Within the [SERPICO](https://team.inria.fr/serpico/) (Space-timE RePresentation, Imaging and cellular dynamics of molecular COmplexes
) team which develops mathematical and computational methods to study the spatiotemporal organisation and dynamics of molecular and cellular processes, my work focuses on developing image processing methods that bridge light microscopy and cryo-electron tomography.

Previously
------

2021-2025

I carried out my PhD at the [Physical Chemistry Curie Lab](https://institut-curie.org/unit/umr168), an interdiscipinary research unit of [Institut Curie](https://curie.fr/) that uses physics to understand living matter. While [my team](https://institut-curie.org/team/levy) specialises in molecular microscopy of membranes by means of in vitro reconstitution and cryo-electron microscopy, [my project](https://copper-antoinette-68.tiiny.site) was focused on the development and application of image processing tools for characterising membrane morphologies and resolving membrane protein structures from cryo-electron tomography data. 

2018-2021

Before I started my PhD, I was a master student at [Heidelberg University](https://www.uni-heidelberg.de/en), where I focused my coursework in bioinformatics and computational biology. Through research internships, I gained experience in the fields of microfluidics (synthetic biology), proteomics (cancer biology), single-cell RNA sequencing (evolution), molecular dynamics (biochemical physics), and image processing for cryo-electron tomography (virology).

2015-2018

I completed my bachelor study in science at [University College Utrecht](https://www.uu.nl/en/organisation/university-college-utrecht), an honours college of [Utrecht University](https://www.uu.nl/en), where I focused on the following subjects (tracks): cognitive neuroscience, chemistry, molecular cell biology, & medicine (gained pre-med qualification). Some topics of my track-finishing projects: spatial perception, brain imaging with fMRI/MRI, drug design, and plant molecular biology. Topics of my research internships: therapeutic nanoparticles, development and cancer modelling in organoids.

Future
------

2027-?

I intend to pursue, ideally, an assistant professorship or another postdoctoral position following the completion of my first postdoctoral contract. I plan to continue working in the field of image processing, or more broadly, computational imaging, with applications to treating and interpreting scientific images. I am currently invested in the following relevant aspects: deep learning architectures for limited training data, physics-informed image reconstruction methods, and explainable methods. I am not actively seeking industrial positions, but I would be glad to support NGOs, think tanks, startups and companies that make positive environmental and social impacts.

Hobbies
------

As a child, I practised gymnastics, learnt to play the piano, won awards in art and creative writing competitions. As a teen, my interests completely shifted to sciences. Instead, I won awards in Olympiad maths, innovative physics, and academic debate competitions. 

Nowadays, since my work happens to be my major hobby, I am taking it easy. I enjoy going around on my kickscooter, taking care of my pet lizard and his live food, struggling to play the majestic [otamatone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_I7nCZVky40) well (one day), doing [amateur landscape photography](https://www.instagram.com/cyansingjikching/?hl=en) when I travel and/or hike, going urban exploring, bouldering, and playing [DnD or games alike](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons) with friends, I dungeon master. 

Contact
------

The Physical Chemistry Curie Lab, 11 Rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 75005 Paris

xingyi.cheng@curie.fr
